OADP-5010 delete backups (#85264)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-about-kopia-repo-maintenance.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/backing_up_and_restoring/oadp-deleting-backups-doc.adoc

Author: Thank you. I made the change in the other modules too.

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="oadp-about-kopia-repo-maintenance_{context}"]
= About Kopia repository maintenance

Following are the two types of Kopia repository maintenance:

* Quick maintenance:

> ** Runs every hour to keep the number of index blobs (n) low. High number of indexes negatively affects the performance of Kopia operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Runs every hour to keep the number of index blobs (n) low. A high number of indexes negatively affects the performance of Kopia operations.
```

** Does not delete any metadata from the repository without ensuring that another copy of the same metadata exists.

* Full maintenance:

** Runs every 24 hours to perform garbage collection of repository contents that are no longer needed.
** `snapshot-gc`, a full maintenance task, finds all files and directory listings that are no longer accessible from snapshot manifests and marks them as deleted.
** A full maintenance is a resource-costly operation, as it requires scanning all directories in all snapshots that are active in the cluster. 

== Kopia maintenance in {oadp-short}

> * The `repo-maintain-job` jobs are executed in the namespace where {oadp-short} is installed. Following is an example of the jobs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `repo-maintain-job` jobs are executed in the namespace where {oadp-short} is installed, as shown in the following example:
```

+
[source, terminal]
----
pod/repo-maintain-job-173...2527-2nbls                             0/1     Completed   0          168m
pod/repo-maintain-job-173....536-fl9tm                             0/1     Completed   0          108m
pod/repo-maintain-job-173...2545-55ggx                             0/1     Completed   0          48m
----

> * You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in {aws-short} S3 storage. You can find a note, as shown in following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in {aws-short} S3 storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due.
```

> * You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in {aws-short} S3 storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due.

Reviewer 3: Issue not specific to AWS S3 bucket. I think we should make the statement generic for all the buckets.
```suggestion 
* You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in backup storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due.
```

> * You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in the backup object storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due.

Reviewer 2: Colon leading into example blocks or commands:
```suggestion
* You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in the backup object storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due:
```

> * The `repo-maintain-job` jobs are executed in the namespace where {oadp-short} is installed. Following is an example of the jobs:
> +
> [source, terminal]
> ----
> pod/repo-maintain-job-173...2527-2nbls                             0/1     Completed   0          168m
> pod/repo-maintain-job-173....536-fl9tm                             0/1     Completed   0          108m
> pod/repo-maintain-job-173...2545-55ggx                             0/1     Completed   0          48m
> ----
> 
> * You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in the backup object storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due.
> +
> [source, terminal]
> ----
> not due for full maintenance cycle until 2024-00-00 18:29:4
> ----

Reviewer 2: Do these 2 items need to be bullets really? Feels like they work just as well as normal paragraphs. So, combining with the two previous comments:
```suggestion
The `repo-maintain-job` jobs are executed in the namespace where {oadp-short} is installed, as shown in the following example:

[source, terminal]
----
pod/repo-maintain-job-173...2527-2nbls                             0/1     Completed   0          168m
pod/repo-maintain-job-173....536-fl9tm                             0/1     Completed   0          108m
pod/repo-maintain-job-173...2545-55ggx                             0/1     Completed   0          48m
----

You can check the logs of the `repo-maintain-job` for more details about the cleanup and the removal of artifacts in the backup object storage. You can find a note, as shown in the following example, in the `repo-maintain-job` when the next full cycle maintenance is due:

[source, terminal]
----
not due for full maintenance cycle until 2024-00-00 18:29:4
----
```

Author: Done. thanks.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Three successful executions of a full maintenance cycle are required for the objects to be deleted from the {aws-short} S3 bucket. This means, you can expect up to 72 hours for all the artifacts in the {aws-short} S3 bucket to be deleted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Three successful executions of a full maintenance cycle are required for the objects to be deleted from the S3 bucket. This means, you can expect up to 72 hours for all the artifacts in the {aws-short} S3 bucket to be deleted.
```

Reviewer 4: Replace s3 bucket with object storage.

Author: Done.

> Three successful executions of a full maintenance cycle are required for the objects to be deleted from the backup object storage. This means, you can expect up to 72 hours for all the artifacts in the backup object storage to be deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Three successful executions of a full maintenance cycle are required for the objects to be deleted from the backup object storage. This means you can expect up to 72 hours for all the artifacts in the backup object storage to be deleted.
```
